ABSTRACT 
Stamping and pad printing Machine is one of the principle machines in stamping industry & printing industry. It is 
mainly used as the name indicates to stamp the logo or any other symbols. So we are going to make a machine for 
“SHIVA ENTERPRISES” and make it with minimum cost and for profitable output. The machine is simple to 
maintain, easy to operate. Hence we tried our hands on “automatic stamping machine.” Automatic stamping 
machine is working on the principle of microcontroller. By using this machine we can easilyprint our logo or name 
on leather, card board, papers, and plastic articles crafts by using pad printing tool.
Keywords-Microcontroller, Printing, Logo, Symbols, Stamp.
I.INTRODUCTION
Printing & embossing is a process for reproducing text and images using a master form or template. The earliest 
examples include Cylinder seals and other objects such as the Cyrus Cylinder and the Cylinders of Nabonidus. The 
earliest known form of woodblock printing came from China dating to before 220 A.D. Later developments in 
printing include the movable type, first developed by Bi Sheng in China. Gutenberg introduced mechanical movable 
type printing to Europe in the 15th century, his printing press key role in the development of the Renaissance, 
Reformation, the Age of Enlightenment, and the scientific revolution and laid the material basis for the modern 
knowledge-based economy and the spread of learning to the masses. Modern large-scale printing & embossing is 
typically done using a printing press, while small-scale printing is done free-form with a digital printer. Though 
paper is the most common material, it is also frequently done on metals, plastics, cloth and composite materials. On 
paper it is often carried out as a large-scale industrial process and is an essential part of publishing and transaction 
printing. Johannes Gutenberg started work on his printing press around 1436, in partnership with Andreas Dritzehen 
– whom he had previously instructed in gem-cutting – and Andreas Heilmann, the owner of a paper mill.
It is not until a 1439 lawsuit against Gutenberg that an official record exists: witness testimony discussed type, an 
inventory of metals (including lead) and his type mould. Compared to woodblock printing, movable type page 
setting and printing using a press was faster and more durable. Also, the metal type pieces were sturdier and the 
lettering more uniform, leading to typography and fonts. The high quality and relatively low price of the Gutenberg 
Bible (1455) established the superiority of movable type for Western languages. The printing press rapidly spread 
across Europe, leading up to the Renaissance, and later all around the world.Page-setting room - c. 1920.Gutenberg's 
innovations in movable type printing have been called the most important invention of the second 
millennium.Generally this machine we have made this is cost effective , with less maintainance and gives 
considerable output.In this machine there are three modes of operation we have added i.e. maual mode , singal auto , 
continuous auto .With minimum input by using this machine we can achieve maximum profit.This is the main 
purpose of this machine. 
Fig.1. Book printing in the 16th century.
II.NEED OF AUTOMATIC STAMPING & PAD PRINTING MACHINE
2.1 Statement of project
The statement of project is “Design & fabrication of automatic stamping & pad Printing Machine” for used 
punch or emboss the machine components names, symbols and other printing work.
2.2 Objective
1) To reduce the power consumption during machining.
2) To maintain the accuracy in production.
3) To develop automation unit, so that m/c can easily be adopted in today’s automated plants.
4) This type of m/c provides work practically at low cost, low maintenance, low capital investment in less space.
5) To perform the most rigid operation with high speed.
